[WHOOSH]
>> 15 years ago, the idea
that living systems would take
advantage of quantum mechanics
was considered laughable.
>> It's hard to fathom how you
get a hunk of matter to become
conscious, honestly.
>> My brain downloaded the
mind from the cosmic center.
>> 4,000, 5,000 years ago,
we would have called it
the Akashic dimension.
Today, we call it reality.
>> It's all kind of simple
but complex at the same time.
Hopefully, that helps.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I talk about intuition,
one of the things I'll ask
the audience is, how
many of you are mothers,
and how many of you have had the
experience of when your child
is up to no good
or in harm's way,
and they're on the other side of
the town or maybe on the other
side of the planet?
About every mother I've ever
asked that raises their hand.
Of course, we know that
that's a real thing.
Well, something has
to connect them.
When you go to the
doctor's office,
they put electrodes across
your heart, your chest,
or you can measure
brainwaves, put electrodes
on the scalp, what
you're measuring is
current flow, the
flow of electricity.
That's why it's called
the electrocardiogram.
I mean, of course, the
heart is the largest
source of rhythmic electrical
energy in the body, by far.
And we know from
just basic physics
that whenever you have a
flow of electrical current,
you create a magnetic field.
Whenever the heart beats,
>> And it's interesting
that in oriental medicine,
the heart is kind of the
center of the energy system
and the brain is not even
considered much in oriental
medicine compared to the
West, where we think this is
regulating it all.
>> With today's magnetometers,
you can measure the cardiac
field, the field produced
by the beating heart,
about three feet from the body,
where you lose sensitivity.
The field goes much
farther, of course.
That's just the sensitivity
of the measuring instrument.
And you can do the same thing.
You can measure brainwaves
external to the body as well,
but you lose sensitivity
with the same instrument
about an inch away
from the head.
So obviously, three
feet, an inch--
the heart field
is the big player
when we're talking
energetically or magnetically
in terms of our biologically
generated magnetic fields.
We all use magnetic fields
every day to communicate.
Most people have
smartphones, right?
So I often ask the
question, well,
how does the
information-- when you're
on your phone, your voice
or the text message,
picture, or whatever, get from
your phone to the cell tower?
In this case, it's an
electromagnetic field
that carries that
information from your phone
to the cell tower.
And phones work inside.
So we know that--
everybody knows that, but
they don't necessarily
think about it.
But it's the magnetic
component in particular
that goes through the walls.
You can even be in an elevator
and your phone will work.
When the heart beats, and
that magnetic field easily
goes right through
the skin and radiates
into the space around us.
So we can think of this as our
personal field environment.
>> We're sending energy out into
the universe that's impacting
other living critters, other
persons and animals and plants.
You might say it's
our auric field.
For example, I watched
the film "Conversations
with God," which has its
uplifting moments and then
its dramas of
homelessness, et cetera.
And I watched my emotions
go on a roller coaster
with our dynamic
emotional detector.
And with this detector,
nothing is hooked on my body.
I'm sitting four, five, six
feet away from the detector.
And so my auric
field is affecting
that detector, which
is also shielded
from all conventional energies.
So that means human beings
have an emotional field that
goes out from the body that
impacts other critters.
>> And there are lots of
support for this suggestion.
So we're able to get five groups
of 20 people in each group.
It's not like they
are sitting in a room
together for 30 days
meditating or something.
They were going about
their normal lives.
We had one here in California,
a group in Saudi Arabia,
a group in Lithuania, a group in
New Zealand, and one in the UK.
They wore these devices for 30
days that recorded their heart
rate variability, the
beat-to-beat change in heart
rate, which actually
reflects the activity
in their nervous system.
>> The heart does not
beat like a clock ticks.
If it does, that's
not a well heart.
That's a sick heart.
The heart shows some
level of variability
in its beating pattern.
It beats a little faster
when you breathe in
and a little slower
when you breathe out.
The greater the heart rate
variability, the healthier
the autonomic nervous
system and the heart.
And that's the most common
way, really, to monitor stress,
is through autonomic measures
of heart rate variability.
>> We organized for all of those
groups globally to synchronize
a time that they all did
a 15-minute heart-based
meditation, which we
call a heart lock-in.
It's one of the HeartMath
techniques, where you really
kind of lock into the heart.
You pretend you're
breathing through the heart
to get the coherent
rhythm going.
But then you activate sincere
feelings of appreciation
and genuine connection, and
then consciously radiate
that to yourself and others.
So we all did this together,
all the five groups,
at the same time.
When we time-synchronized
the data, what we found
was just jaw-dropping.
After 15 minutes of us being
in a coherent state personally,
the slow rhythm in
people's heart rhythms
are synchronizing, even across
vastly different time zones.
This is a global phenomenon.
This actually was
puzzling to us.
I mean, we were
so shocked by it.
Like, what?
And as good scientists, we
tried to make it go away,
do all the double-checks
and things, and couldn't.
The only thing that
could really explain it
was that they're all
synchronized to another signal
that they're all exposed to,
the rhythms of the Earth's
magnetic field.
I mean, I've heard
so many times people
saying, well, on some
level, we're all connected.
What we're seeing here with the
Earth human magnetic research,
I think, gives us a
plausible mechanism.
And I'm not saying this is the
only way we're interconnected,
but it's certainly
one that appears to be
very real and very measurable.
So if we're all connected to
the field, like I'm suggesting,
feeding information into the
field, well, that's how mom--
and/or dads too, can
have that same thing--
are connected to their children.
And what tunes our
inner receivers,
just kind of like the cell
phone, is what we care about.
We tend to be tuned in
to the information--
we pull the information
from the field--
of the people that are
close to, us that we love,
that we care about.
What a mess it would be if moms
were tuned in to the however
many billion kids there are.
So it's really, again,
it's our emotional systems
that tend to attune us to the
emotional-- to the information
of interest out of
the global field.
[LIGHTNING CLAP]
>> The Schumann resonance is a
frequency that vibrates between
the Earth and the ionosphere.
Whenever lightning
strikes, it triggers
that space between the
Earth and the ionosphere.
And lightning strikes all the
time somewhere on the planet.
>> You can think of the resonant
space within our atmosphere
the same as the resonant
space in a violin or a guitar.
And it's a particular shape
and it's a particular size,
and it's constantly being
stimulated by the solar wind.
The solar wind beats on
the edge of our ionosphere
like a hand beats on
the skin of a drum.
So the sun is endlessly
and continually creating
what are called
micropulsations, which
are a full spectrum
of natural resonances
that we then live in.
So because the speed of light
and the depth of that cavity
and the distance
around the Earth,
the primary standing
wave that establishes
is 7.83 waves per second.
So think sitting on a beach,
watching waves hit the beach.
If 7.83 of those hit
the beach every second,
you'd be listening
to Schumann wave.
>> The cool thing about
the Schumann resonance is
it's right at the threshold of
the theta and alpha brainwave
states.
>> When we close
our eyes and relax,
we go down to about
8 hertz brain waves.
So in other words, we
seem to recapitulate,
or we're in sync with Mother
Earth at our lowest ground
state level of consciousness,
closing the eyes
and going inward.
>> The frequencies of
consciousness, the beta, alpha,
theta, and delta, those
are actually literally four
octaves, and the midpoint
is the Schumann resonance.
So we think, feel,
physiologically
have a vibration intelligence,
two octaves below
and two octaves above Schumann.
>> There's a research project
that shows that it entrains all
the brains on the planet
into that threshold of theta
and alpha, which
gives us a stable,
consistent brainwave state.
>> We share that communal
resonance literally with
the planet, because it is
the planet's resonance.
And so everything that's
established itself here
has to be tied to that.
>> And it's been doing it for
hundreds of millions of years.
So we're kind of addicted
to it, so much so
that if you don't get
it, you can get sick.
They actually give it to
astronauts electromagnetically.
Probably the most important
frequency on our planet.
It's not really the
frequency of our planet.
It's a frequency
in the atmosphere.
But it's the number
one vibration
that we are in tune to.
It's like nature.
To get back to it is like a
way of reconnecting to nature.
So that's really one of the
most important brainwave
frequencies, even.
>> So there's eight
Schumann resonances.
And Schumann was a
German mathematician
who predicted the
existence of these.
So they're named after him.
That's why that name.
There's eight of them.
First one is 7.83 hertz,
then 14, 20, and so on.
It turns out all eight of
the Schumann resonances
overlap with human brainwaves.
So what did I just say?
The two primary magnetic
systems and rhythms of Earth
overlap exactly our heart
rhythms and our brain rhythms.
Now, what's really
fascinating-- and I
don't know if this means
anything or not yet.
But it's an interesting
observation.
I mean, earlier,
I talked about how
the heart's the big field,
three feet, brainwave an inch,
that you can measure
magnetically.
Well, it's the same
ratio at Earth scale.
So the field line
resonances, which
are the same as the heart,
are many orders of magnitude
larger than the
Schumann resonances.
So it's the same kind of
ratio at Earth's operating
at as humans are operating at.
But the reason this
is important, I think,
to understand is, again,
if we time travel back
to science class, we know if
you take two tuning forks tuned
to the same
frequency and you tap
one, the other
starts to vibrate,
or two guitar strings
tuned to the same note.
And that's used to
demonstrate what's
called resonant coupling.
So with our tuning
forks, guitar strings,
and so on, what's mediating that
energy transfer between the two
tuning forks is air molecules,
just like I'm talking now.
I'm vibrating air,
and it's creating
waves that go through the air
to the microphones or people's
ears and you hear it.
Well, it's the same thing
with the tuning forks.
Systems that vibrate
at the same frequency,
you can transfer energy and
information between them.
Well it works exactly the
same way with magnetic fields,
only you don't need
the air molecules
to mediate the effect.
How do we know this?
Well, cell phones again.
Everybody has a cell phone.
These invisible magnetic
waves are all around us.
How does my phone transfer
the energy and information
from the one that we want?
Well, you literally
tune the circuitry
in the phone, the
receiver, to be resonant
with the frequency of interest.
As soon as we do
that, voila, you
transfer the energy
and information
from these invisible waves
into the phone, amplify it,
and we're having
our conversation.
So I'm just saying,
it's the same thing.
Our brains and hearts are
operating at the same frequency
as the primary rhythms in
the Earth's magnetic field,
which we all live within.
So to circle back
around to how I started,
I'm suggesting,
through resonance,
our hearts and brains are
coupled to the Earth's field.
So this is something
that's actually testable.
There's many, many
studies now, that this
is beyond a hypothesis, that
the fields we live within,
the Earth's magnetic fields and
the rhythms and disturbances
in those fields, affect humans.
And we certainly
have-- different people
have different
sensitivities to it.
But we're all affected by it.
So when the magnetic
fields of Earth
are disturbed, for example,
through a solar flare
or something like that,
hospital admissions
go up for a wide range
of health conditions.
People tend to be more edgy,
don't sleep as well, kind
of wake up more
frustrated or edgy feeling
without any kind of reason
that you can trace it to.
These are all things that go on.
But I'm suggesting it's really a
two-way street, that we're also
feeding the field.
So that's one of our slogans
within the Global Coherence
work, is to consider, what
am I feeding the field?
What's the information
I'm putting
into my local field,
which then is coupled
to the big field of the Earth?
>> According to quantum
theory, the new physics,
the universe may be
gargantuan, but it's in us.
Not only are we in the
universe, the universe
is in us, because
everything that
makes the universe
what it is today,
we would call it
all the information,
all the energy
flows, is actually
reflected in every
cell of our body,
in every atom in every cell,
because we are interconnected.
>> There's an ecological
connection in which
there's an interdependence
of large systems.
But this is deeper than that.
This is saying that
it is not simply
that we are interdependent
on each other,
but that there's aspects of
you and aspects of me which
are literally the same thing.
They appear to be separated
in space and time,
but that's only because
we're kind of embedded in it.
We see things, in
an everyday sense,
as though we're separated.
At a deeper level, that actually
may not be the case at all.
>> It's an entirely
new way of thinking.
It's also a very old way,
because the great thinkers
of antiquity, the Buddhists,
for example, the Taoists,
knew this.
And they considered the universe
as an interconnected whole
which is suffused
by a higher spirit.
>> If you have a group of people
out there who are suffering,
that is affecting you.
Whether you even
know it or not, it's
affecting you, because
you're part of that.
So the moment you understand
that somebody else's suffering
is your suffering,
literally, then well
what are you going
to do about it?
It's not even limited
to life on Earth.
It's like life in the
universe, perhaps,
or maybe just the
universe in general.
So it is so big it's hard
for our little pea brains
to grasp it, but that
would be the implication
of the kind of
interconnectedness
we're talking about.
>> As far as we know, this
universe is a single resonated
field in which all things
are connected with all other
things.
It gives us an
entirely different view
from the standard classical view
of a material universe where
bits and pieces
of matter are just
moving about in passive
space and indifferent time.
>> So if I wish to use my
attention to pay attention,
in a focused way, to something
which is far away from me,
then it's conceivable that
there's portions of my brain,
my physical brain, which
are actually there,
in the same way that a quantum
particle can be here and there
at the same time.
>> We reflect the universe
because we are connected to it.
We are part of it.
These concepts are
so basic, so large,
that you can't simply deduct
them reduce them or derive them
from something else.
They are fundamental.
>> And then beyond that, it's
like the causal realm where
your life purpose resides, all
your memory of other lifetimes
and the whole history
of the planet, really.
What they call the Akashic
Records is out there.
It's all one big thing.
And it's a big collective
consciousness at that level.
>> The Akasha was the dimension
the Hindu seers talked about.
They said there are the four
regular dimensions, air, water,
fire, and earth.
They called this the
standard dimension,
but they said there is a higher
or deeper dimension, if you
like, which includes
all the others.
This is beyond all the others.
It includes all the others.
It's the deep dimension.
Later on, Plato himself
talked about this
as a platonic dimension of
the soul of consciousness.
>> I do think that there is
an energy version of every
physical thing, just
like Plato said.
There is a non-physical
energy pattern
that is inside of every
physical thing that
gives rise to that form.
It's like a blueprint
for a house.
You follow it.
It creates the house
in its physical version
of the two-dimensional
blueprint.
>> The Akashic field
is the universe.
It's how the universe
appears to us.
When we inquire how
things are connected,
how things are conserved,
we find the answer today.
So the quantum science says
all things are connected
to all other things, and
nothing disappears completely
without a trace.
Today, we can call it the
universe as it appears
in the quantum sciences.
It's an Akashic
universe, you might say.
>> We are not just physical
matter, so to speak.
That's the old Newtonian view.
We are created by an
underlying, invisible quantum
field of interfering waves.
And that brings a
completely new perspective
to spirituality, to healing, and
to many other things as well.
Quantum theory, as it was
developed about 100 years ago
by Max Planck, Albert
Einstein, Niels Bohr, and Erwin
Schrodinger, was really a
theory about quantum phenomena
on the microcosmic,
subatomic level.
As I have found,
that will not suffice
in order to understand
the big-scale evolution
of the universe and how we
humans fit into it ourselves.
It's a big step between
a little electron
that the original pioneers
of this science were studying
and how humans
relate to each other.
>> I do feel, intuitively,
as a scientist,
there's a whole realm of reality
that's giving rise to this
physical realm.
And we have some
concepts, for example,
from quantum physics
that would go along
with that theoretically.
So we can think of it
as a sea, and we're only
able to see the waves.
We can't see the
infinite potential
of this vast sea of energy.
We only see the individual
waves popping up
into physical existence.
>> The Maya actually developed
a macrocosmic quantum theory
to understand human life in the
big perspective and how that
evolved.
The pyramids that
they built, they
were not the smooth
kind of pyramids
that you find in Egypt
or many other places.
They were built as terraces.
And each of these terraces--
nine of them, almost always--
represents a level of
consciousness, you might say.
Each of them is also developed
by a particular wave,
a wave of creation.
When you climb one of
those pyramids, which
is what their shaman kings
would do thousand years ago,
the step from one of these
terraces to the other
symbolizes a quantum
leap between one aspect
of creation, one state of
consciousness, to another.
When you start to look upon
history in this perspective,
things happen independently
in separate locations.
You have pyramids being built in
Peru or in Mongolia or in Egypt
and so forth.
It's like they're downloading
a new mind, actually.
What makes the Maya stand out
among all ancient traditions
is that they had numbers.
They had a calendar.
Whenever there is a significant
shift date, a wave shift,
so to speak, in
the Mayan calendar,
we can see when that happened.
We can see, how does that
fit with the evolution
of various phenomena?
The sixth wave that was
activated 3115 BCE, people
went from Stone Age to
building pyramids in Egypt
in maybe seven generations--
I mean, almost nothing.
It happened like this.
The quantum model
also makes us--
we don't have to wonder about
something that might have been
before or anything like that,
because if it's a quantum
shift, it is bound to happen
suddenly, instantaneously,
more or less.
And that is one of
the characteristics
of quantum theory.
Quantum leaps happen
instantaneously.
The seventh wave, 1755.
One thing, obviously, at
that time that happened
was the Industrial Revolution.
Another was the attraction
to republics and democracies,
basically-- the
ideals, at least,
started to manifest
then in the American
and the French revolutions.
That whole process had
been going on ever since.
People think that, oh, I
did this, or I did that,
or whatever we did.
And there's some truth to that.
Of course, we play a
role as co-creators.
But we did not create
the quantum state
that allowed these changes
to happen in the first place.
>> I believe that everything
that ever happened is here
to influence what
is happening now.
I don't believe that
it determines what is
going to happen in the future.
I think this universe
has a degree of freedom.
Things can be created.
Things can evolve.
Things can be decided yet.
We can create the future--
not without limits, of course.
It has to be built on what
has already been there.
But the past does not
determine the future.
The future is determined by
how we interact in the present,
together, all of us.
That means all beings
in space and time,
through their
interaction, create
the world that is coming to be.
>> The dowsing tool acts
as an informational bridge,
if you will.
And most people think of
dowsing as finding water.
That's the typical
images of the chap
with the forked sticks striding
across the field looking
for a water supply.
But dowsing is just a means
of accessing our intuition.
It enables us to tune
into our subconscious,
and we can tap into other
sorts of energy fields as well.
We're here today at the
world's largest stone circle,
which is Avebury in Wiltshire.
And we're going to be exploring
some of the Earth energies
that we find here on this
lovely British summer's day.
In the 18th century,
antiquarian William Stukeley
did the first drawing and
the first survey of the site,
and he called it the great
serpent temple of Wiltshire.
And that's because
there are two avenues
of stones that led from the
circle down to smaller sites.
So it seems that it
was a ceremonial site.
The number of stones
here is quite impressive.
It's a really impressive feat
of megalithic engineering.
It's important to
dowsers because it
is almost in the center of
what's called the Michael line.
And that's an
alignment of sites that
runs from Southern Cornwall all
the way up to Norfolk, where
it enters the sea at Hopton.
And that's a straight
alignment that
connects many sites such as
Glastonbury Tor, Avebury, Bury
St. Edmunds Abbey, and so on.
And around this site, we
have the Michael and the Mary
currents.
And one's called male and
one's called a female current.
And here, the two currents
interact and connect
at two or three points
throughout the circle
before they go on their way.
But these are the things that
dowsers are interested in.
>> The Earth meridian, which
we traditionally call dragons,
might be 40 feet wide.
In scientific terms, these
are called telluric currents
and Schumann waves.
So they are recognized, but the
old-fashioned talk about them
was as dragons, which I find
more poetic, and actually more
engaging to the imaginal mind.
The dragons, as it were,
or the meridians, really
are the flux lines
of a toroidal field.
On the human body, we map
them only on the surface,
but actually, if we look
at the toroidal field,
we have wings that go out
and those meridian lines
are just the surface
pathway of something
that then goes out and includes
a vibrational space around us.
And we're very familiar with
how that looks on the Earth.
We've got a North/South Pole
and a magnetic field around it.
And that's what holds
the atmosphere in
and the solar radiation out.
So the dragons hold
the place together.
And then we've got Earth
and air and fire and water,
is the Platonic division
of those fixed states,
but they're all obviously
vibrational states.
And those create our
perceptual environment
that we can move, in a
physical way, through.
We're fish in an ocean of
vibration, as it were--
vibrational bubbles in
a vibrational ocean.
>> When I met some dowsers from
the British Society of Dowsers
in 1999--
this was down in Cornwall
at the solar eclipse.
And I discovered that all
these things that I was doing
could all be called geomancy.
>> Geo means anything
to do with the Earth,
and anything -mancy
means divination.
And so chiromancy, for
example, is palm reading.
Taromancy would be card reading.
And so generically,
geomancy simply
means divination of place.
So it relates to accessing the
vibrational energetic spirit
intelligence of the
physical environment.
>> Dowsing is a tool that
allows us to detect things,
like these Earth energies
that we look for.
Geomancy is how we apply them.
So we can manipulate
these energies
and we can attract them to
enhance the energies of an area
or get rid of any
detrimental energies.
So it's kind of like
Western Feng Shui,
is the easiest way
to describe it.
Coming through
here, down the site,
we have both the
Michael and Mary lines
running right down the site.
So I'm just going to see if I
can pick up the nearest one.
A little bit tricky in the
wind here with these rods.
Let's try.
So I'm looking for the
center of the current.
Here we are.
That's one of the currents.
I'm not sure which one.
I can ask questions
of the rods as well.
So I say, is this
the Michael current?
And the rods cross,
which is a yes for me.
So this is the Michael.
So the next one I come across
should be the Mary current.
Let's see if we can
find the center of that.
Here it is.
So this is the center of the
line that I'm dousing here.
Now, these can be
several meters wide.
So I'll just carry on
and ask for the edge.
So I'm just focusing and looking
for the edge of the line here.
Dowsing is all about
the mental focus.
And here it is, here.
So you can see this is probably
about six meters across here,
the whole thing.
And these two lines come
right down through the henge,
and they go off and they
split and they go and connect
other areas in the
Avebury complex.
And these flow all the
way from southern Cornwall
up to Norfolk, weaving in and
out of this straight alignment.
So I'm going to try and
follow the Mary current here,
trying to find where
the two currents cross.
So if I look for the center
again, here's the center.
So I can just use one rod here
and I can follow the current.
So the tip of the
rod kind of sticks
to the center of the line.
And where it crosses with the
Michael current, this happens.
So this is what's
called a node point.
You get a little rising
vortex of energy.
So this is where the Michael
and the Mary intersect.
It's just at the entrance
to the main circle.
>> We can completely identify
the energy field of a person
with the energy
field of a place.
And so whatever happens
to you when you go
to your acupuncturist, they're.
Checking your pulses, they're
checking your chi flow,
they're looking at
different meridians.
There's no difference in
the energy field of a person
and a planet except for scale.
The planet's just a
bigger body than we are.
So everything that
your acupuncturists
are doing, everything
that your energy workers,
that your healers
are doing, we're
really doing that on the
planet, just adapting to scale.
I do literally use
needles, and they
would be alarming if your
acupuncturist approached you
with them.
I think we're seeing
needles of stone
all over Britain and old Europe
in the network of standing
stones and stone circles.
With the shift from
nomadism to agrarianism
and wanting, then, to
manage landscape energies
for extending growing seasons,
increasing germination rates,
enhancing health
and crops, they seem
to get into an energetic
management system
that sort of more
looks like tuning
pegs on a musical instrument.
And so they left
their needles in,
probably adjusted them
regularly on a seasonal basis.
>> This is Saint James's
Church in Avebury.
And it's interesting
that the church is not
placed within the stone circle.
It's deliberately
placed outside.
Normally, in other
sites like this,
you will find that
the church has
been built over the
original pagan site
as a way of taking
control of the energies
and subsuming them into
Christianity, if you will.
But here, because
the circle is so big
and the energies are
so strong, they've
had to build it
outside the circle.
But it's an interesting
church, and unfortunately, we
can't get in today,
because it's locked.
It has a Norman font dating
back to the 11th century,
I think it is, which has
a wonderful carving on it
of a bishop with
his miter slaying
two dragons around
the base of the font.
So he's pinning the heads of
the dragons into the ground.
And this is really a
metaphor for the act
of foundation in geomancy.
By building our sacred site on
these particular confluences
of dragon energies, we
fix the energies in place
and we create our sacred site.
It's what energizes the space.
>> In terms of the application
of this work in agriculture,
best we can date around the
Avebury complex 6,500 years
ago, 4500 BC.
And it seems like
that was then farmed
sustainably until our
so-called Green Revolution,
the move away from what we
would now consider organics
towards enhancing crop
diet with chemical
fertilizers, fungicides,
pesticides, and so forth.
Husbandry became
agricultural science.
And the qualities of traditional
farmers, as with so much
in our culture, were
set aside perhaps
as being of fantasy
or folklore or trivial
or non-consequential.
>> So this is the
West Kennet Avenue,
which is one of two avenues
of stones that once led from
the Avebury circle.
The other one is called
the Beckhampton Avenue,
but not much of that
survives now apart
from a couple of stones.
And this runs over a mile
from the main circle,
weaving through the
landscape up to a site called
The Sanctuary, which is
a smaller circle that
was probably just timber posts.
Maybe it had a roof on it.
So it seems clear
that this was probably
a processional
route for entering
into the main circle, which
is why we think the Avebury
circle was a gathering
place, probably,
a regular ceremony, maybe
at midwinter or midsummer
or something like that,
where thousands of people
would gather.
So running down the
center of this avenue
is the Michael current.
That's the male current
of the alignment.
And here it is here.
Here's the center of it.
And the width of it, if I just
go back and do that again--
so we're looking for the edge
of the Michael current here.
And it's here.
So it's as wide as the
stones at this point.
It's actually getting
wider as it comes down.
We're just going to
check the other edge.
Yeah, so it's the
width of the avenue.
And this is a very typical of
these big, wide dragon lines.
We often find that
they are-- this
is why we call
them dragon lines,
because they are so wide,
they are so energetic.
Normally, energy lays can be a
little bit narrower than this.
Typically, two to three
meters is about normal
for an energy lay.
But these dragon lines are
very wide because they're
so powerful.
The Michael alignment goes
all the way around the globe.
There's a great circle that
goes right around the planet,
and these dragon
lines weave in and out
like snakes around a caduceus.
There are still several stones
in the main circle that remain
buried beneath the ground.
In Victorian times
and earlier than that,
it was fashionable to try
and get rid of these pagan
monuments.
So many of the
stones were broken up
and incorporated into the
houses in the village, in fact.
But there are still
several in the main circle
that remain buried.
So geomancy is about
enhancing our relationship
with the place.
We try and seek out
these environments that
are beneficial to human life.
So much of the problems
we have these days
is that people are
building houses and living
over these unhealthy
Earth energies.
So the job of a
geomancer like myself
is to come in and try
and neutralize or change
those energies to
more beneficial ones.
>> It's still quite
an emergent field.
When my parents
started their work,
there was so much
cultural prejudice.
Their kids weren't
allowed to play
with the minister
or doctor's kids
because they were
obviously dangerous people.
And there was just a lot
of fear and worry about it.
And now, pretty much
everybody's next door neighbor
is a Reiki master.
>> My work over
the last 25 years,
huge amount of it has
been helping people with
their domestic spaces.
The World Health
Organization, at one point,
declared that 30%
of our buildings
were sick buildings,
meaning that 20% or more
of the occupants or inhabitants
were showing health or comfort
problems relating
from the site itself.
Shocking.
Huge statistic.
Some of my work is helping
clients with commercial spaces.
If it's a sick commercial
space, then maybe it
stands vacant without tenancy.
Maybe there's a high rate
of sick leave or turnover.
Maybe there's some
vibe around it
where people don't want to go
in and either eat or buy or do
whatever.
So that includes
many possible sources
of environmental
stress, from air quality
to light quality to
electromagnetic fields.
But then also, in
my interest area,
the geopathic stress
where the Earth energies
are out of balance
or inappropriate.
>> The two main components
of the Earth energy picture,
if you like the yin and the
yang, is water and energy.
Water is very yin energy.
So we find it's not good to
be sleeping over water lines
or water sources.
This is typically an unhealthy
zone to be sleeping in.
And over time, it will
deplete your immune system
and allow illnesses
to take hold.
And also, like sleeping
over an energy line
can be too much of a good thing.
We want these yang energies
in our sacred spots,
like our churches and our
stone circles, our temples,
our meditation chambers,
even our workplaces,
but it's not good to have
them running through your bed,
because you would
have trouble sleeping.
So that's the main
job of a geomancer
in a day-to-day context, is to
try and balance these energies
within the home.
We all have this ability.
You just have to unlock it.
So it really does open
doors in your mind.
So I encourage
everybody to take it up.
It really helps us get in
touch with our intuitive side
and makes us more
aware of the world
around us, which is all good.
>> And then comes
the ninth wave,
which was activated in 2011.
I think people are now only in
the process of downloading it
slowly.
It certainly hasn't come
to any dominating role yet.
But it's there.
Some people are working on it.
It seems that the ninth wave
is meant to bring us back
to a state of non-separation,
to a state of unity
and no longer projecting
a duality, separations,
on ourselves or on others.
>> And that has the
properties of the divine.
Billions of galaxies
and trillions of
stars, and here we
are, like a speck
of dust in all of this-- but
an important speck of dust,
with our own channel
to the divine.
>> Life is only possible if
every quantum, every particle,
in every cell of our body
cooperates with every other
cell.
This is a primitive
universe in that sense.
It allows many things to happen.
You are not forced
into a big wheel where
you can only do one thing.
That's a lesson we
are now learning,
and we have to make use of it,
because we cannot just keep
going, doing what
we have been doing.
That's what lead to more
and more breakdowns.
We have to go forward
and create a world
where all people interact,
where all people can live,
all people can flourish.
We can do it.
The information is there.
Our technologies, properly
used, properly developed,
can serve this.
It's up to us.
So I think it's a
tremendous opportunity.
It's an exciting time to live.
I wouldn't exchange it for
any other time in history.
[MUSIC PLAYING]